Guided Project_ Analyzing NYC High School Data

One of the most controversial issues in the U.S. educational system is the efficacy of standardized tests, and whether they're unfair to certain groups. Given our prior knowledge of this topic, investigating the correlations between SAT scores and demographics might be an interesting angle to take. We could correlate SAT scores with factors like race, gender, income, and more.

The SAT, or Scholastic Aptitude Test, is an exam that U.S. high school students take before applying to college. Colleges take the test scores into account when deciding who to admit, so it's fairly important to perform well on it.

The test consists of three sections, each of which has 800 possible points. The combined score is out of 2,400 possible points (while this number has changed a few times, the data set for our project is based on 2,400 total points). Organizations often rank high schools by their average SAT scores. The scores are also considered a measure of overall school district quality.

New York City makes its data on high school SAT scores available online, as well as the demographics for each high school.

The same website has several related data sets covering demographic information and test scores. Here are the links to all of the data sets we'll be using:

SAT scores by school - SAT scores for each high school in New York City
School attendance - Attendance information for each school in New York City
Class size - Information on class size for each school
AP test results - Advanced Placement (AP) exam results for each high school (passing an optional AP exam in a particular subject can earn a student college credit in that subject)
Graduation outcomes - The percentage of students who graduated, and other outcome information
Demographics - Demographic information for each school
School survey - Surveys of parents, teachers, and students at each school
All of these data sets are interrelated. We'll need to combine them into a single data set before we can find correlations.
